# Open Crumb Sourdough

The goal of this recipe is to create fluffy sourdough bread that features an
excellent open crumb. The crumb should have evenly spread alveoli. The crust
of the bread should be thick and crispy. That way you experience two different
consistencies thus creating a more wholesome taste experience.

Please note that this is by far the most complex bread you can bake. All the
parameters depend on each other. If you commit a small error at one of the steps,
chances are you will not be able to create similar product. It has taken me
approx. 200 attempts and 400 hours to get this recipe right. This is also by
far the most time intesive bread that I have baked in the past. The dough
requires working, you need to carefully observe fermentation. 2 hour per loaf
is a realistic time. It would be interesting to know if similar bread can be
achieved by using more tools, or whether it remains artisan craftsmanship.

Furthermore different temperatures, different flours all result in you require
handling the dough differently. Throughout this guide I will explain all
the pitfalls I encountered with possible fixes. I have always used the same
base recipe, trying to only change 1 parameter at the time. That way I could
improve from bread to bread. I tried to be as scientific as possible, but
sometimes I accidentally changed multiple parameters. Sometimes I would do one
step a few minutes later simply because I had to finish drinking a beer, going
to the toilet. It's very hard to repeat exactly the same process throughout
every bake, but try your best!

Do not feel demotivated if you can not complete the recipe with similar results
right away. Feel free to open up an issue here on the repository to receive
further advice on what you should look at.


## Preparing your starter
